Loans Starter Loan Choose our Starter Loan to build your credit rating and develop a positive relationship with your Credit Union. Apply now Benefits for you Enjoy a safe way to borrow and improve your credit Increase your financial stability and independence Affordable interest rates to manage your money more effectively Access other beneficial services, such as GMB Credit Union savings accounts Your Starter loan £100 – £500 42.6% APR 6-18 months repayment term Loan repaid by direct debit monthly, four-weekly, or weekly You're eligible to apply if you… Are 18 years or over A member of GMB Credit Union Can provide proof of ID and regular income Agree to save a minimum of £10 per month Have no recent County Court Judgements (CCJs), Individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVAs), Debt Relief (DRO) or Bankruptcy Terms & Conditions No fees or penalties for early repayment Savings are secured until the loan is fully repaid Subject to a credit search and we may request additional information to support your application Got a question? Visit our FAQ Starter Loan representative example Loan Value: £300 Repayment Term: 9 months Monthly Repayment: £38.54 Interest: 42.6% APR Total amount: £346.76 The figures above are for illustrative purposes only the actual repayment amounts will vary subject to loan amount and term. Browse loans Apply Apply for our Starter Loans today. It's fast, easy and you can do it all on our website. Get the money help you need right here. Apply now Why choose us? GMB Credit Union is more than just a financial institution – we're a community where members help each other. We make sure that money circulates for the benefit of the community by pooling member savings and then lending to other members. Support your GMB community and boost access to affordable credit with your GMB Union membership. Download our app Get a Handy Loan with our GMB Credit Union mobile app. It's simple and secure to use. This makes applying for our loans a breeze. Plus, you can manage your loan and check your repayments easily and safely, all from your device.