Loans Top-Up Loan Top-Up Loans take the fuss out of additional borrowing. Need funds for new furniture or unexpected expenses? With good credit and an established relationship with GMB Credit Union, you can quickly access more money. Apply now Benefits for you Boost your finances conveniently if you have an existing GMB Credit Union loan Simplify budgeting by replacing your existing loan with a topped-up one for a single repayment Maintain control as your established direct debit adjusts to repay your new loan easily Your Top-Up loan Loan repaid through your usual direct debit, adjusted to cover the new topped-up amount once agreed You're eligible to apply if you… Are 18 years or over Are a member of GMB Credit Union Have an existing GMB Credit Union loan Terms & Conditions Top Ups are assessed on an individual member basis and are available subject to affordability on all loans except Starter Loans Normally, half of your first loan must be repaid before we can consider a Top Up Loan unless otherwise agreed at the time of the original loan Members can apply for up to three Top Up Loans annually (or a maximum of four Top Up Loans for Family Loans) Subject to a credit search and we may request additional information to support your application Got a question? Visit our FAQ Apply Apply for our Top Up Loan today. It's fast, easy and you can do it all on our website. Get the money help you need right here. Apply now Why choose us? GMB Credit Union is more than just a financial institution – we're a community where members help each other. We make sure that money circulates for the benefit of the community by pooling member savings and then lending to other members. Support your GMB community and boost access to affordable credit with your GMB Union membership. Download our app Get a Handy Loan with our GMB Credit Union mobile app. It's simple and secure to use. This makes applying for our loans a breeze. Plus, you can manage your loan and check your repayments easily and safely, all from your device. Download from Apple Store Download from Google Play