Loans Save & Borrow Loan Foster a healthier relationship with your money using our Save & Borrow Loan. It's a great way to save and build your credit score if you're on a smaller income and want to manage your money better. Apply now Benefits for you Get financial flexibility with a loan for easy borrowing and repayment, allowing you to manage your money your way Foster good money habits and build a strong financial foundation, creating a safety net Boost your credit score over time by consistently meeting your flexible loan repayments Learn more about money and feel more confident using our easy-to-understand loan process. Your Save & Borrow loan £250 – £2,000 42.6% APR 12-36 months repayment term Loan repaid by direct debit monthly, four-weekly, or weekly You're eligible to apply if you… Are 18 years or over A member of GMB Credit Union Can provide proof of ID and regular income Agree to save a minimum of £25 per month for at least six months before borrowing Have no recent County Court Judgements (CCJs), Individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVAs), Debt Relief (DRO) or Bankruptcy If you are not a member of GMB Credit Union, we will open a savings account for you as part of the loan agreement process. Terms & Conditions No fees or penalties for early repayment Loans are based on a maximum of three times your savings You should always have savings equivalent to one-third of your loan balance, which we'll keep hold of Subject to a credit search and we may request additional information to support your application Got a question? Visit our FAQ Save & Borrow Loan representative example Loan Value: £1,200 Repayment Term: 18 months Monthly Repayment: £87.26 Interest: 42.6% APR Total amount: £1,570.46 The figures above are for illustrative purposes only the actual repayment amounts will vary subject to loan amount and term. Browse our loans Apply Borrowing money from your Credit Union has never been easier. Apply for our Save and Borrow Loan today. It's fast, easy and you can do it all on our website. Get the money help you need right here. Apply now Why choose us? GMB Credit Union is more than just a financial institution – we're a community where members help each other. We make sure that money circulates for the benefit of the community by pooling member savings and then lending to other members. Support your GMB community and boost access to affordable credit with your GMB Union membership. Download our app Get a Handy Loan with our GMB Credit Union mobile app. It's simple and secure to use. This makes applying for our loans a breeze. Plus, you can manage your loan and check your repayments easily and safely, all from your device. Download from Apple Store Download from Google Play