Loans Handy Loan Smaller loans, like our Handy Loan, are ideal if you need to cover short-term expenses or manage unexpected life costs. Steer clear of financial stress while continuing to strengthen your credit rating. Apply now Benefits for you Gain financial independence through accessible smaller loans Preserve financial flexibility with no penalties for early loan repayments Maintain good credit health by avoiding financial strain Safeguard your savings until your loan is fully paid off Your Handy loan £200 – £2,500 34.5% – 42.6% APR 36 months max repayment term Loan repaid by direct debit monthly, four-weekly, or weekly You're eligible to apply if you… Are 18 years or over Are a member of GMB Credit Union Can provide proof of ID and regular income Agree to save a minimum of £10 per month or more Have no County Court Judgements (CCJs), Individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVAs), Debt Relief (DRO) or Bankruptcy If you are not a member of GMB Credit Union, we will open a savings account for you as part of the loan agreement process. Terms & Conditions No fees or penalties for early repayment Savings are secured until the loan is fully repaid Subject to a credit search and we may request additional information to support the application Got a question? Visit our FAQ Handy Loan representative example Loan Value: £2,000 Repayment Term: 30 months Monthly Repayment: £95.56 Interest: 34.5% APR Total amount: £2866.59 The figures above are for illustrative purposes only the actual repayment amounts will vary subject to loan amount and term. Browse our loans Apply Apply for our Handy Loans today. It's fast, easy and you can do it all on our website. Get the money help you need right here. Apply now Why choose us? GMB Credit Union is more than just a financial institution – we're a community where members help each other. We make sure that money circulates for the benefit of the community by pooling member savings and then lending to other members. Support your GMB community and boost access to affordable credit with your GMB Union membership. Download our app Get a Handy Loan with our GMB Credit Union mobile app. It's simple and secure to use. This makes applying for our loans a breeze. Plus, you can manage your loan and check your repayments easily and safely, all from your device. Download from Apple Store Download from Google Play