Member Hub FAQs We're introducing our new Member Hub on Wednesday 24th June 2026. Read on to get answers to some common questions. General Member Hub FAQs Do I need to do anything right now? No. You don't need to take any action at this time. The Member Hub goes live on Wednesday 24th June 2026. What is replacing My CU Account and the GMBCU mobile app? The Member Hub will replace the My CU Account area on our website and the GMBCU mobile app You'll use the Member Hub to manage your account online going forward. How do I use the Member Hub? We have a Member Hub guide here to take members through each stage of the platform. Will I still be able to manage my account online? Yes. The Member Hub will provide the same functionality you currently use at launch. You'll be transferred to the new hub and still be able to view and manage your account online as usual. Will my login details change? We'll confirm full login details closer to launch. If anything changes, we'll explain clearly what you need to do. We'll keep the process as simple as possible. Will there be any downtime? There is no planned downtime. If however, any temporary downtime occurs while we switch over, we'll let members know in advance. We'll aim to keep any disruption to an absolute minimum. Is Member Hub secure? Yes. GMB Credit Union is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). Eligible savings are protected up to £120,000 by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Member Hub has been designed to provide a secure and reliable way to manage your account online. Why are you making this change? We're constantly looking at ways to simplify and improve our service. The Member Hub gives us a more modern and robust platform, which means we can introduce improvements and new features over time. What happens to the GMBCU Mobile App? GMBCU mobile app access to GMB Credit Union members will cease once the new Member Hub is live. You'll access your account through the Member Hub instead, using your internet browser on your phone, tablet or computer.