Everyone experiences financial challenges at times but, right now, we know things feel harder than usual. Therefore, as the cost-of-living crisis affects more and more areas of your life, we wanted to remind you that we're here to help in a number of ways. Our latest blog is a round-up of the different services, products, and resources we offer to help you navigate life's financial storms. Member Helper Member Helper is a new section on our website. It's designed to help you access valuable tools and resources to manage your finances or tackle any issues you're experiencing to work towards better financial wellbeing. Here, you'll find: Easy-to-use online resources, like a budget planner Links to debt management services Advice on where you can access independent advice and support We will regularly update this section of the website, ensuring that you can get as much support as possible from your Credit Union. Support and guidance If you read our blog page regularly, you'll know that we offer information and practical tips to keep you in the loop about financial matters that affect you, as well as to help you stay in control of your budget and avoid falling into difficulties. Reading our blogs and implementing our advice empowers members like you to take proactive and positive steps towards managing their money better. If you haven't visited our blog in a while, we've handpicked some helpful articles you might have missed below: Understanding IVAs – this article explains what Individual Voluntary Arrangements are, why you should avoid them, and what the alternatives are The shocking truth about short-term credit – what it means, what the disadvantages are, and which safer options are available to you Options for dealing with debt – practical solutions to handle your arrears and debt Visit our blog section here for the latest news and advice, and please let us know if you have any suggestions on helpful articles, we could create to support you. Open communications Money worries can feel worse than they are the longer you ignore them. When you bury your head in the sand or procrastinate about reaching out for support, you may convince yourself there's no way out of your current financial struggles. At GMB Credit Union, we encourage our members to communicate openly with us so we can offer personalised support, advice, and solutions. Contacting us as early as possible means we can recommend the best course of action for you and your family before things spiral any further. Our Member Support Packages are designed around your needs and keep the lines of communication open to confront and resolve any challenges you're facing together. Here's how to contact us: Telephone – sometimes talking to a real person is what you actually need. If you prefer to talk, call us on 0161 486 1777 to speak to friendly, knowledgeable staff who are there to listen and help. Lines are open 10.00 am – 2.00 pm Monday to Friday. GMBCU – you can also send us a message via our secure app 24/7 and a team member will get back to you during office hours (9am – 4pm, Monday to Friday). Email – or you can send us an email at info@gmbcreditunion.com Affordable borrowing When finances are tight, loans can be a lifeline to help you pay for the things you might otherwise struggle to cover. However, not all loans out there are your friend, as high-interest rates, fees, and the risk of bad credit can worsen your situation in the long-term. As a GMB Credit Union member, you can apply for a range of fast, fair, and flexible loans with us to stay afloat. Why we're a responsible lender: Your financial wellbeing is our priority – we only lend what you can afford to pay back Reducing interest – you only pay interest on your decreasing loan balance, making it more manageable to pay back Price match promise – our interest rates are very affordable, but if you happen to find lower, we'll do our best to match it Payment breaks – if you borrow over £5,000, you have up to three monthly payment breaks to take in one go or as and when you need to Could you do with a loan to smooth out the current cost of living increases. Staying Cyber safe As part of our ongoing commitment to member safety, we have been awarded Cyber Essentials certification. Cyber Essentials is a government scheme to help organisations protect their data and customers from online attacks. In fact, cybercriminals commonly look for websites without Cyber Essentials in place because they're easier targets for attacks. So, gaining this certification shows we take your confidentiality and safety seriously and always monitor the latest developments in cyber security for your peace of mind. Your financial questions answered We're here to help, so if there's anything on your mind that we haven't covered here, please let us know. You can contact us directly at any time for trustworthy, confidential, and non-judgemental guidance about your financial situation. Not a member yet and keen to access our advice, resources, loans, and more? Find out how to join us here.