Savings Member Saver Invest in your financial future and grow your savings with our Member Saver account. Get annual dividend, free life insurance, 24/7 online access and tailored support through your GMB Credit Union membership. Apply now Benefits for you No set up costs or hidden charges Annual dividend each April, letting your savings work harder for you 24/7 access to your account online, keeping track of your savings wherever you are Additional GMB membership benefits, including saving as you borrow with affordable loans and support on managing your money Get free life insurance cover up to the age of 80 Your Member saver Save via direct debit, standing order, or bank transfer, benefit payments Online account management via our App or the My Account area of our website A straightforward easy access account via faster payments An annual dividend paid in April Deposits are fully protected by the FSCS Our dividend return for 2025 was 3.00%. You're eligible to apply if you… Are 18 years or over Are a GMB trade union member or an immediate family member Terms & Conditions Minimum opening deposit is £5 Maximum savings per member is £25,000 Maximum savings per month are £1,500 Lump sum deposits are accepted Withdrawals are by faster payments to a member's nominated bank Member savings may be locked to act as security for your loan Eligible members receive an annual dividend in April, after it's agreed upon at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) Dividend is calculated based on your daily balance throughout the year, from January 1st to December 31st Dividends are paid gross Your liability to pay tax depends on your individual circumstances Got a question? Visit our FAQ Apply Apply for a Member Saver account today. It's fast, easy and you can do it all on our website. Don't wait, achieve your long-term financial goals now. Apply now Why choose us? GMB Credit Union is more than just a financial institution – we're a community where members help each other. We make sure that money circulates for the benefit of the community by pooling member savings and then lending it to other members. Support our GMB community and boost access to affordable credit with your GMB Union membership.