Savings 365 Saver Earn a 5% bonus on your savings after just 12 months. Applications for the third 365 Saver cohort opened on 1 July 2026 and are now being accepted. If you're looking to build your savings while supporting your community, now is the perfect time to get involved. Apply now Benefits for you Save smarter and grow your savings longer term Lock your savings for 12 months and earn a 5% dividend An ethical investment in our community Savings are FSCS protected and eligible for up to £3,000 life cover Your 365 Saver Fixed savings term of 12 months Minimum account balance to open and maintain is £1,000 Maximum Account Balance £40,000 Lump sums by direct transfer from your bank are welcomed Includes a free life savings cover up to £3,000 After a year, enjoy a 5% dividend and automatic transition to our Member Saver account for ongoing saving You're eligible to apply if you… Are 18 years old or above Are a registered member of the GMB Trade Union Are an account holder with GMB Credit Union Terms & Conditions Internal transfers from existing GMBCU savings accounts are not permitted Withdrawals are not permitted during the 12-month period; if you withdraw, it will cancel any dividend payments Dividends are paid gross. It's up to members to report this income if they are taxpayers 365 Saver Issue Three will operate from the 01 September 2026 and will mature on the 31 August 2027 Deposits are fully protected by the Financial Compensation Scheme (FSCS) up to £120,000 Got a question? Visit our FAQ Applications now open Applications for the third cohort of 365 Savers opened on 1st July 2026. By joining the 365 Saver, members can build a more secure financial future while benefiting from being part of our community, including access to ethical loans. Keen to get involved? Applications are now being accepted. Don't miss the opportunity to join the third cohort and start your savings journey today. You can also start your savings journey right away with our full range of savings accounts here. Why choose us? GMB Credit Union is more than just a financial institution – we're a community where members help each other. We make sure that money circulates for the benefit of the community by pooling member savings and then lending to other members. Support your GMB community and boost access to affordable credit with your GMB Union membership.