Savings Christmas Saver Our Christmas savings account is ideal for those planning for the festive season with effortless online management, protected deposits and an annual dividend. So you have this expensive and magical holiday period all wrapped up and can relax and enjoy time with your family and friends. Apply now Benefits for you With money saved, there is no need to worry or get into debt at this expensive time Unlock your savings in November or December and plan your festive shopping Enjoy the benefits of annual dividends, further boosting your savings Flexibility to save what you want and plan ahead for a fun family holiday period Your Christmas saver Save weekly or monthly via direct debit or standing order Make one-off deposits from your bank account Online account management via our App or the My Account area of our website Savings are accessible to withdraw at your convenience from 1 November until the 31 December. Earn an annual dividend on your savings Deposits are protected by the Financial Compensation Scheme (FSCS) Free Life Savings protection up to £3,000 Our divided return for 2025 was 4.00% You're eligible to apply if you… Are 18 years or over Are a GMB trade union member or an immediate family member Are an existing GMB Credit Union member – Please do not submit an application if you already have a Christmas Saver, please message via Nivo or email to amend your direct debit amount. Terms & Conditions Minimum opening deposit is £5 Maximum savings per member is £5,000 To support your Christmas objectives your savings are locked between 1 January and 31 October Eligible members receive an annual dividend in April, agreed at our AGM Dividend is calculated on your daily balance for the year to 31 December We will continue to collect your deposits on the agreed basis in preparation for next Christmas unless otherwise instructed Got a question? Visit our FAQ Apply Kickstart your savings journey with our Christmas savings account today. It's easy and quick to apply on our website. Plus, as part of our community, you'll not only save for a better future but also gain access to affordable, flexible and ethical loans. Apply now Why choose us? GMB Credit Union is more than just a financial institution – we're a community where members help each other. We make sure that money circulates for the benefit of the GMB community by pooling member savings and then lending to other members. Boost access to affordable credit and avoid buy now, pay later schemes with your GMB membership.