Savings Saving regularly helps you plan for a brighter financial future. It also gives you and your family peace of mind should an emergency arise. Our easy access savings accounts are simple and straightforward. Our Savings Accounts Member Saver Get annual dividend, free life insurance, 24/7 online access and tailored support through your GMB Credit Union membership. Save via direct debit, standing order, or bank transfer, benefit payments Online account management via our App or the My Account area of our website An annual dividend paid in April Deposits are fully protected by the FSCS Apply Now Learn more > Young Saver Our Young Saver Account is a simple way for parents, guardians and grandparents to put money aside for the children in their lives. Available from birth to 17 years of age Linked to an adult GMB Credit Union savings account Save weekly or monthly via direct debit or standing order Earn an annual dividend Deposits are protected by FSCS up to £120,000 Apply Now Learn more > Christmas Saver Plan ahead with a GMB Christmas savings account for a stress-free holiday period. Save weekly or monthly via direct debit or standing order Online account management via our App or the My Account area of our website Unlock your savings from 1 November until 31 December Earn an annual dividend on your savings Apply Now Learn more > PrizeSaver Start saving from just £1 with the chance to win £5,000 every month! A credit union savings account with monthly prizes and a chance to win £5,000 Every £1 in your account gives you 1 entry into the monthly prize draw Each PrizeSaver account holder has a maximum of 200 prize draw entries per month 21 prizes every month, including the grand prize of £5,000 and twenty smaller prizes of £20 Apply Now Learn more > 365 Saver Earn a 5% bonus on your savings after just 12 months Fixed savings term of 12 months After a year, enjoy a 5% dividend and automatic transition to our Member Saver account for ongoing saving Minimum account balance to open and maintain is £1,000 Maximum Account Balance £40,000 Includes a free life savings cover up to £2,500 Learn more > Premium Saver Rewarding members who commit to regular savings Additional 1% premium on top of our standard Member Saver annual dividend The minimum monthly direct debit is £50.00 and the maximum monthly direct debit is £1,000.00 Maximum account balance is £12,000 Includes a free life savings cover up to £2,500 Apply Now Learn more > Benefit from annual returns We pay an annual dividend on all easy access saving accounts. This dividend is paid out every April and is agreed at our Annual General Meeting (AGM). Save and borrow affordably When members save with us, we are able to create funds that we pool for lending. This allows us to provide affordable loans to others. Opening a savings account with GMB Credit Union helps build your finances and it also gives you access to lower-rate loans, benefiting everyone involved. This type of credit cycle is known as the virtuous circle. Protect your money Looking after your money is our priority. Credit Union savings are fully protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) up to £120,000. Rest easy that your savings are safe and secure. Safeguard your family with free life insurance Life insurance cover is provided on all GMB Credit Union member savings accounts up to a maximum of £3,000. This is a free, unique safeguard that supports member's families with end-of-life expenses. GMBCU has a group insurance policy that automatically insures all our members so there is no paperwork required. Shape your credit union Choose GMB Credit Union for your savings account and make an impact. Engage in the decision-making process, shaping our direction, products and policies. It's your credit union to influence and grow alongside. How to apply Apply for a savings account via our online website form. It's a quick and easy process to follow, so why not sign up today? Apply now