The new GMBCU Member Hub We're introducing our new Member Hub on Wednesday 24th June 2026. Read on to learn more. What is the Member Hub? The Member Hub is a secure online area where you can manage your GMB Credit Union accounts. It will replace both the My CU Account area on our website and the GMB Credit Union mobile app, bringing everything together in one secure, web-based platform. It works like a web app, which means you can access it through your internet browser on your phone, tablet or computer – without needing to download an app. Once live, Member Hub will provide the same features you currently use in the My CU Account and the GMBCU mobile app. Once our members have moved across, we will introduce additional improvements and new functionality. There's no action required from you right now, but do read our Member Hub Guide below to see how it will work in action. Read the guide What's changing? The 'My CU Account' area on our web site will be replaced by Member Hub The GMBCU mobile app will close and transfer to the Member Hub You'll access all your accounts through the new Member Hub There will be plenty of new features available in the hub to enhance your experience when managing your account remotely What's staying the same? You'll still be able to manage your accounts online Your savings and loan details will remain the same Our team is here to help if you need support Your account remains fully secure and protected You will access the Member Hub from the same place as your CU account on our website – just go to the button on the top right-hand corner of the website When is this happening? The Member Hub will go live on Wednesday 24th June 2026. We'll let you know once it's live. There's nothing you need to do until then. The aim is to provide a simpler, more robust service platform for our members and we are committed to improving and increase functionality over time. Security and protection Your account details will remain secure. GMB Credit Union is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). Eligible savings are protected up to £120,000 by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Our Member Hub has been designed to provide a secure and reliable way to manage your account online. What now? Sit tight for now and we will let you know when our new Member Hub will arrive! If you have any more questions, visit our Member Hub FAQs page.